so laptops with two screens are now a
thing and this is the Zenbook pro duo
this is the first laptop that of use
that had a full width screen I mean
there's the touch bar from Apple but
this is like an actual usable screen and
when they first announced this thing I
think the thought that ran through a lot
of people's mind it was is this a
gimmick or is this actually gonna bring
functionality and this is what this
video is about like how usable is the
screen now just to get this right out of
the way Asus includes a bunch of kind of
built-in applications and a built-in UI
for the secondary screen it's cool that
they made custom apps for this display
but they didn't feel useful to me I
found that the real value of this bottom
screen was just using it as an extended
screen or just like a second screen for
your computing experience the thing I
wanted to use this device for was for
video editing I use Adobe Premiere and
the idea was to run the application so
that it would just basically stretch
across both screens and it would run my
timeline on the bottom screen because
when I edit videos I usually stare more
at the image instead of the actual
timeline and I found it to be useful but
there are a few things you should be
aware of first you have to adjust your
workspace so that it fits into these two
windows but you have to understand that
this bottom panel does not have a great
viewing angle from your regular sitting
position you do have to look basically
flat down at it so you don't want you
have your really important stuff down
there you want your critical work up top
and kind of like your supplementary work
at the bottom the other thing is that in
Adobe Premiere if you want to view
something in full-screen you hit the
tilde key and it'll fill up the whole
screen the problem is the program now
thinks the top and the bottom panel are
the full screen so the image is now
stretched across both screens it's
something that I could personally work
around but I think for some content
creation that might be a bigger issue
but the whole idea of having two
separate screens that have extra real
estate for your workflow is really nice
and this works for any kind of content
creation and whether it be Photoshop
Illustrator or any kind of creation of
work we want to have a lot of stuff on
your screen this is nice now the second
thing I thought that this double screen
setup would be useful for is for just
multitasking so you can have YouTube
running and like a web browser and read
it or just have multiple windows running
so you can monitor multiple
things at the same time now as for how
useful that is I really think that
depends on what you're using those
screens for if you're just browsing the
web I don't think this is worth the
extra money over a normal laptop but if
you're using it in terms of like having
reference material on one screen and
then typing on the other screen like
doing some kind of publication then yeah
I could see this being useful but in
terms of just multi paneled workflows
it's not bad the last scenario I thought
this could work for is for gaming now
this isn't a dedicated gaming laptop
it's a pretty powerful system it's
running an eight core Intel CPU and an
RT X 2060 so it's got some powerful
components but the idea was to run a
game on the main screen and then have
info on the bottom screen like you can
have build guides or discord or twitch
if you're a streamer you could just run
whatever you want on that second screen
but the issue I found with this
particular scenario is that the game
that you're playing in because these are
4k screens you can't easily switch
between them unless your game is running
in 4k and this system isn't great for 4k
gaming so the scenario of gaming on this
device and using that secondary screen
for something is cool it sounds great on
paper but I just found that it was
difficult to actually make it a
worthwhile experience I think most
people are better off buying a regular
gaming laptop and then plugging up a
secondary screen to the device so with
all three scenarios I found video
editing to take advantage of this bottom
screen the most readily but it's still
not a perfect situation the biggest
issue is the angle of the screen it's
not like when you're viewing from top
it's weird to kind of glance down and
then back up to what if you're looking
at so you really need to run just
secondary info on that bottom screen I
do kind of wish that this screen would
pop up a little bit like there's already
a bit of lift from the ergo lift
mechanism but I wish it would just tilt
up a few degrees more so you could see
it more easily but that's what we have
now speaking of ergo lift when you open
and close this laptop there is a
mechanism to raise the back of the
laptop to help with air flow so this
screen just by nature of its position
makes it more difficult to cool this
device than a regular gaming laptop
because this screen is sitting on top of
the hottest components the CPU and GPU
are right underneath here and to
compensate for that they have to do this
ergo lift system and they're pulling air
from the sides and underneath the laptop
to cool this they've done
an adequate job when I'm running renders
there's no thermal throttling but when
I'm playing games after like 40 minutes
it does throttle a little bit granted
this is not a gaming laptop and this is
just an engineering sample but actually
think they could have run these fans a
little bit harder it's a pretty quiet
system even onload okay just a quick
review for the rest of the device it's a
15 inch laptop but it's not super thin
for a performance laptop it's on the
thicker side but it's the secondary
screen and the way they have to cool
this thing because of that screen that
gives it that extra thickness the
screens are really nice the top is an
OLED panel the bottom is an IPS panel if
you're worried about OLED burnin like
we've seen on phones I don't think it's
as big of an issue on laptop screens
maybe they're not running them as bright
but the few burnin tests that I've run
on these devices I'm not seeing the
issues so I feel relatively confident
purchasing OLED screens right now the
keyboard is shifted down obviously
they've done this to fit that secondary
screen the typing experience is OK they
include a wrist rest but even typing
without that wrist rest is perfectly
fine it's just that the keystrokes are a
little bit shallow their 1.4 millimetre
travel the track pads on the right and
this is something have to get used to
but I think most people using this
device are gonna be running an external
mouse so battery life on this system
I was hitting four hours a little bit
less than that it's a 71 watt hour
battery it's not a huge battery and I'll
be honest I thought the battery life
would be shorter but four hours is not
bad on the inside you also have access
to the Wi-Fi card it's running the new
Intel Wi-Fi six chip and you also have
access to the nvme but the RAM is
soldered on so you have to figure out at
the time of purchase how much RAM you
want because you cannot upgrade that on
this system the port selection is also
fair there's two UPA's one Thunderbolt 3
and that's basically if there's also an
HDMI port but in terms of USB
connectivity is just those three its
usable but for a laptop that's geared
towards creatives I would like to have
seen an extra port or maybe two the
speaker's sound nice though it's a Zen
book they often have good speakers now
if you're looking at this device and
you're wondering should I actually get
this like is this something that's gonna
fit my workflow the one kind of
suggestion that I would have is if
you're someone that could benefit from
extra screen real estate on your laptop
then consider this but keep in mind that
be
as the screen is on a weird viewing
angle you need to be someone whose
workflow doesn't require both of your
screens to have perfect viewing angles
this bottom screen is useful but it's
best when you put secondary information
on it or some kind of like reference
material or stuff that is important but
not as important as the stuff that's on
your main display so reviewing a product
like this is difficult because when you
put your mindset into the average user
that might actually consider this
usually there's no like learning curve
when it comes to using a product but for
something like this you actually have to
sit down and like if I bought this thing
if I spent the money to buy this device
I would spend the time to customize my
workflow
and customize my workspace to make it
fit this dual screen device but if you
don't do that it's difficult to really
maximize the usability of this thing
like you do need to learn its nuances
and figure out how to fit into your
workflow to make this device really
worth the money but if you can make it
fit I think for those people it's a cool
device okay hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs would be liked it subs we'd
love to see you guys next time